---
author: "Šimon Kochánek"
date: "10/3/2021"
output: pdf_document
fontsize: 10.5pt
---

<style type="text/css">
body{
    font-size: 10.5pt;
}
</style>

# 3. The Czech Republic

## Basic Information

         The Czech Republic is a landlocked country in Central Europe with population close to 11 mil.
        It is bordered with Austria,Germany,Poland and Slovakia.
        The Czech Republic has hilly lansdscape with mostly temperate continental climate and oceanic climate.
        Czechia ranks as the 27th most environmentally conscious country in the world in Environmental Performance Index.
        And from world factbook the women have longer lifspan than man.

## important history events

         In 1918, during the collapse of the Habsburg Monarchy at the end of World War I, the independent republic of Czechoslovakia,
        which joined the winning Allied powers, was created, with Tomas Garrigue Masaryk in the lead.

        The FIrst Czechoslovak Republic comprosed only 27% of the population of the former Austria-Hungary, but nearly 80% of the industry,
        which enabled it to compete with Western industrial states.

        Czechslovakia was the only democracy in Central Europe during the interwar period.
        Although the First Czechoslovak Republic was a unitary state,
        it provided certain rights to its minorities.

## Communism Warsav Pact invasion of Czechoslovakia

         The invasion successfully stopped Prague Spring liberalisation reforms and strengthened the authority of the authoritarian wing within the KSČ.

        The communist party was losing influence and it's impact,wasn't as much as in 1948.
        People could start a small business and there were bright chance,on new democracy.
        The communist party couldn't allow this and called to Warsav Pact for help.
        Pact then mobilize the army and moved it's forces into the Czechoslovakia, for defeating "capitalism that was beginning its roots" as communist manifesto said.

## The creation of Czech Republic

         On the 17. November the Velvet Revolution began as non-violent protest and transition of power from Communist party.
        They announced that they would seize all their power and end to the one-party state.
        All the barbered wire obstructions were removed from the border with West Germany and Austria in early December.
        On 29. December the Václav Havel was elected on the President of Czechoslovakia.
        In June 1990 Czechoslovakia held its first democratic elections since 1946.On 1. January , Czechslovakia split into two countries.

## Capital City Prague

         The Capital city of Czech Republic is Prague as were in it right now.It's the largest city, and I in my honest opinnion the most beutifful one in Czech Republic.
        The city has warm summers and chilly winters.Prague is political, cultural and economic centre of central Europe,
        with rich history. Prague is home to a number of well-known cultural attractions,
        many of which survived the violence and destruction of 20th-century Europe.

        Main attractions include Prague Castle, Charles Bridge, Old Town Square with Prague astronomical clock
        Petřín hill and Vyšehrad. For me it's Petřín hill which I like the most.I have really good memories and stories on it.

        I had a date that went very well and was very romantic.As we were gazing on Prague, laying in grass and eating bagguete with blue cheese,
        and talking about future plans and how We gonna live our lives. And i think I had visited a pub on top of the hill with guys and
        I don't think I need to explain how that went.I am from village named Libeń that is close to Dolní Břežany that is home toIf anyone of you heard
        about ELI centre or more famously called "The biggest laser in Centre Europe".It's like hour and half from Palacky's square.
        But one bus can take you as far as Modřany are.

## Government

         Let's talk about favorite czech subject : The politics. We are parliamentary representative democratic state.
        The Parliament is made of two parts.The Chamber of Deputies and the Senate.The Chamber of Deputies has 200 seats and its members are
        elected for four year term.The senate has 81 seats and it's members are elected for six year term with one third changed every even year.

        The Parliament is making proposal on law and if they agree on it they send it to senate for agreement.If they don't agree it's returned to Parliament.
        And it continues like that.We have president who is right now Miloš Zeman and his main purpose is to represent country in foreign countries,
        and doesn't wield as much power as in America or France.But with Prime minister their signatures can make something.
        President is also head of Military of Czech Republic.We have also prime minister whose role is to appoint other ministersand cabinet.
        The Cabinet must receive confidence from the Chamber of Deputies and the Prime Minister stays in office,
        only as long as he or she retains the support of a majority of its members.

## Characterize the country and some interesting people

         It's no secret that czech people love bear and food rich on fat and carbs.The second type Diabettes is represented , but I think that
        health standard is improving.During the lockdown I was suprised by how many people started exercising.It's for speculation if they started
        because of mental problems or physical.I exercised a lot during quarantine.I was really angry and I needed a way to get it of me.
        
        I went running often too.And I started long walks with my dog where we would lost on some field and just go in direction without purpose or end.
        The long walks into the unknown are really good on mindfullness and sorting thoughts.I can't say that one day I won't leave Czech republic.
        I would really like to but , I don't think that it is in nearly future. I am thinking about starting in another country from zero,
        but I don't think that it is rational.Is it better to travel and maybe move now or after 10 years.What would slow me and hurt me more.
        And I would say that I am someone who take risks.
